# Feasibility of a Hybrid Brain-Computer Interface for Advanced Functional Electrical Therapy

## Content
- [Stats](https://cravat5386.github.io/thesis/20230122_2.html#stats)
- [Analysis (or my attempt at it)](https://cravat5386.github.io/thesis/20230122_2.html#analysis)

## Stats:
Authors: Andrej M. Savić, Nebojša M. Malešević, and Mirjana B. Popović

Publishing Date: 2014

Journal: The Scientific World Journal

DOI: [https://doi.org/10.1155/2014/797128](https://doi.org/10.1155/2014/797128)

## Analysis
### Methods
For the EEG, Ag/AgCl electrodes were positioned on the C3, Oz, and Cz locations, with a ground electrode on the forehead. Impedances were maintained below 5 kΩ, and signals were amplified 20000 times and digitized with at 500 Hz. Participants were instructed to select an object, and prepare mental imagery to grab the object. When selecting the object, participants were told to stare at an LED corresponding to the object, which would evoke steady-state visual evoked potentials (SSVEPs). Then, the motor imagery of the participant should set off event-related desynchronization (ERD), which would trigger an FES system to stimulate the participant to grasp the object.

An INTFES electrode system was used, connected to a PC via bluetooth. Calibration was done by sending signals to hand muscles and measuring twitch amplitudes.

To detect SSVEPs, Oz-Cz channels were used to measure whether there was a spike in a particular frequency band in the occipital lobe, which would correspond to the activation caused by a blinking LED light. The EEG signal was filtered with six 4th order Butterworth bandpass filters - the 3 frequencies and their first harmonics.

To detect ERD, the C3-Cz channel was used. Mu rhythm was determined via calibration, and participants were given feedback on how potent their imagery was via a power bar on the computer screen.

The BCI device was controlled with a mean accuracy of 78% with a deviation of 12%.

## Edit History
Jan 22, 2023 - First Draft
