# Upper limb functional electrical stimulation devices and their man–machine interfaces

## Content
- [Stats](https://cravat5386.github.io/thesis/20230122.html#stats)
- [Analysis (or my attempt at it)](https://cravat5386.github.io/thesis/20230122.html#analysis)

## Stats:
Authors: L. Venugopalan, P. N. Taylor, J. E. Cobb, I. D. Swain

Publishing Date: 2015

Journal: Journal of Medical Engineering & Technology

DOI: [https://doi.org/10.3109/03091902.2015.1102344](https://doi.org/10.3109/03091902.2015.1102344)

## Analysis:
### Types of Man-Machine-Interfaces (MMIs)
#### Position transducer
Ex. A two-axis position sensor is implanted in the shoulder. Vertical motion was used to choose a stimulation type (lateral pinch or palmar grasp) and forward/backward motion was used to make fine adjustments.

This transducer can be shoulder mounted (see example), or wrist mounted (flex wrist to extend fingers, extend wrist to close fingers). However, this may not be practical if the user cannot move the part of the body the position sensor is mounted to.

Devices that used this MMI:
- NeuroControl Freehand System
- The Bionic Glove
- Complex Motion
- Intelligent Functional Electrical Stimulator

#### Buttons
Ex. An external button is used to alternate between modes of electrical stimulation.

Once again, this depends on the user's ability to push the button. The actigrip also had velocity sensors to generate synergetic motion between different stimulated muscle groups.

Devices that used this MMI:
- NESS H200 (Handmaster)
- Actigrip
- FESmate
- ETHZ ParaCare (By U of T!)

#### EMG
Ex. An EMG measures the amount of activity in a muscle and stimulates the muscles based off of that. Muscle groups can be used to either control the level of stimulation, or to provide state commands (ex. ON or OFF).

Devices that used this MMI:
- ETHZ ParaCare
- Implanted Stimulator Telemeter
- Myoelectrically controlled FES system

#### Other MMIs
- Joint Angle Sensor: Uses a magnet and magneto-resistive sensor to generate signals proportional to joint movement
- Accelerometer and gyroscope
- Voice Recognition

### Comments
From this paper, it seems like the devices can be split into two categories: those that use biosignals such as body position and EMG, and those that use unrelated inputs such as buttons and sliders. Out of these two, users of both types of input systems showed signs of improvement. This leads me to believe that systems using unrelated inputs may be better - although there may be more efficacy in using biosignals related to the movements, buttons and sliders offer much more flexibility. Additionally, these two systems could be used together, with unrelated inputs providing state-type controls (ex. what type of movement, on or off, etc.) and biosignals providing fine tuning.

## Edit History
Jan 22, 2023 - First Draft