# Home-Based Functional Electrical Stimulation Rescues Permanently Denervated Muscles in Paraplegic Patients With Complete Lower Motor Neuron Lesion

## Content
- [Stats](https://cravat5386.github.io/thesis/20230111.html#stats)
- [Analysis (or my attempt at it)](https://cravat5386.github.io/thesis/20230111.html#analysis)
- Edits and Addendums (coming soon)

## Stats:
Authors: Helmut Kern, Ugo Carraro, Nicoletta Adami, Donatella Biral, Christian Hofer, Claudia Forstner, Michaela Mödlin, Michael Vogelauer, Amber Pond, Simona Boncompagni, Cecilia Paolini, Winfried Mayr, Feliciano Protasi, Sandra Zampieri

Publishing Date: 2010

Journal: Neurorehabilitation and Neural Repair

DOI: 10.1177/1545968310366129

## Analysis:
### Methods:
Home stimulation occurred for 5 days every week. The electrodes were large, delivering current uniformly throughout the contact area, and placed by the patients themselves.

The first treatment used was long duration, high intensity biphasic stimulation - 120-150 ms/stimulation, 60-75 ms/pulse, 80V and 250 mA. After assessment by physicians, other training and stimulation patterns were used to try and enervate other muscles. These other training sessions lasted up to 30 minutes.

*Edit: [See stimulation patterns addendum](https://cravat5386.github.io/thesis/20230111.html#stimulation-patterns)*

### Results:
The home stimulation program was able to conserve the size of slow fibres and revert atrophy of fast fibres. Additionally, the muscles themselves were able to deliver more force and knee torque, and patients were able to perform movements required for daily life (ex. knee extensions, stepping-in-place, standing, etc) However, this was the result of 2 years of FES therapy.

## Addendums
### Stimulation Patterns
The stimulation patterns in this paper were found in source \[1\], table 3. They were as follows:

| Program | Stimulation Params | Training Params |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | 120-150ms ID / 400ms IP; 4sec SD / 2sec SP | 3-4 x 3min with 1-2min pause; 5d/week |
| 2 | 70-100ms ID / 400ms IP; 5sec SD / 2sec SP | 4-5 x 3min with 1-2min pause; 5d/week |
| 3 | 40-50ms ID / 10ms IP; 2sec SD / 2sec SP | 4-6 x 20-40 rep 1-2min pause; 5d/week |
| 4 | 40ms ID / 10ms IP; continuous stimulation | standing, stepping-in-place and walking; 4-6 x 20-40 rep (1-5min) 1min pause; 5d/week |

Note: ID is impulse duration, IP is impulse pause, SD is stimulation duration, and SP is stimulation pause. So for example, program 1 would consist of 4 seconds of stimulation, with pulses of 120-150ms followed by 400ms of rest. These 4 seconds of stimulation would then be followed by 2 seconds of nothing.

The pulses used were biphasic and high intensity (up to 80 V and 250 mA). Training program 2 is twitch training, training program 3 is tetanic training.

### Addendum Sources
\[1\] Kern, H., Hofer, C., Mayr, W., & Carraro, U. (2009). European Project RISE: Partners, protocols, demography. *Basic Applied Myology, 9*(15), 211–216. 

## Edit History
Jan 11, 2023 - First Draft

Jan 14, 2023 - Stimulation Pattern Addendum