# Dynamic Stimulation of Visual Cortex Produces Form Vision in Sighted and Blind Humans

## Content
- [Stats](https://cravat5386.github.io/fdvr/20230109.html#stats)
- [Analysis (or my attempt at it)](https://cravat5386.github.io/fdvr/20230109.html#analysis)
- Edits and Addendums (coming soon)

## Stats:
Authors: Michael S. Beauchamp, Denise Oswalt, Ping Sun, Brett L. Foster, John F. Magnotti, Soroush Niketeghad, Nader Pouratian, William H. Bosking, Daniel Yoshor
Publishing Date: May 2020
Journal: Cell
DOI: [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2020.04.033](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2020.04.033)

## Analysis:
This article was quite exciting for me when I first came upon it - it's the first step in internalizing the sense of sight in an FDVR system. Although this would probably be one of the last senses to be internalized - after all, this is one of the things that conventional VR is really good at - this paradigm could potentially be applied to other senses that must be internalized, such as smell and taste.

### Background
The optical cortex, located in the back of the skull, is responsible for all the visual processing that occurs in humans. The regions of this part of the brain can be mapped to areas in the retina (aka the optical cortex is *retinotopically mapped*), which means that stimulating a specific area of the optical cortex should make someone "see" something in that particular area. When this happens, people see a flash of light, called a *phosphene*.

Although one might think that these phosphenes can be combined like pixels in an image, this doesn't really work, with groups of areas stimulated at the same time producing a larger phosphene, rather than the desired picture. However, we can stimulate these phosphenes in sequence, which then produces the actual desired image.

### Stimulation Parameters
Using a series of implanted electrodes in the receptive fields of patients, currents of around 3.6 mA to 4 mA were used. The pulse trains lasted 100 ms to 400 ms, using 60 Hz to 120 Hz pulses. The researchers also tested the speeds at which letters could be drawn - getting a 87% accuracy for a 200 ms - 500 ms stimulation-response pattern, and 92% accuracy for a 700 ms - 1300 ms stimulation-response pattern.

## Edit History
Jan 9, 2023 - First Draft